docs: consolidate UI Components - Message (#2334)
GetStream/stream-chat-react: docusaurus/docs/React/guides/theming/message-ui.mdx

title: Message UI
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> Message UI is one of the main building blocks of the chat application. Designing proper message UI is no easy feat and that's why our SDK comes with a pre-built component ([`MessageSimple`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react/blob/master/src/components/Message/MessageSimple.tsx)) which is packed with functionality and is easy to customize through [our CSS variables](../../theming/component-variables.mdx) or through component replacement ([Component Context](../../components/contexts/component-context.mdx#message)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message UI is one of the main building blocks of the chat application. Designing proper message UI is no easy feat and that's why our SDK comes with a pre-built component ([`MessageSimple`](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react/blob/master/src/components/Message/MessageSimple.tsx)) which is packed with functionality and is easy to customize through [our CSS variables](../../theming/component-variables.mdx) or through component overrides ([`ComponentContext`](../../components/contexts/component-context.mdx#message)).
```

In this guide we'll build a simplified custom message UI component combining pre-built and other completely custom components.

Message UI and all of its children can access [`MessageContext`](../../components/contexts/message-context.mdx) in which it's wrapped, and therefore can call the `useMessageContext` hook accessing all of the message related information and functions alike.

> ## Custom Message UI

Reviewer: I think we can drop this header to keep the article structure flat.

Author: I was pointing out something similar in your guide, haha, will definitely remove, thanks!
